Taiwan  has  been  considered  as  the  homeland  for  the  expansion  of  Austronesian (AN)-speaking populations that spread from Easter Island to Madagascar. However, recent evidence from human genetic data have reached conflicting conclusions. Here, I studied the genetic affinities among current inhabitants of Taiwan and their closely related ethnic groups. Our  lab  genotyped  94  individuals  residing  in  Taitung  county  of  Taiwan  using  Illumina's Omni2.5Exome  array  (~2.5  million  SNPs).  In  order  to  maximize  the  number  of  Asian populations in our analyses, I merged our data with three public SNP datasets - the Human Genome Diversity Project (HGDP), Pan-Asian SNP Consortium, and Southeast Asia dataset. Overall, the merged dataset includes 2,610 individuals across 124 ethnic groups. I performed principle  component  analysis  (PCA)  to  identify  patterns  of  genetic  variation  across  all samples. As a result, the individual distribution on the first two PCs display a gradient of population  substructures  along  the  longitudes  of  population  sampling  locations  across continents.  In  addition,  I  found  signatures  of  admixture  between  Taiwanese  Han  and aborigines. I further inferred a maximum-likelihood tree that best fits the observed covariance matrices of allele-frequency distributions between all the populations analyzed. AN-speaking populations in the Island Southeast Asia (ISEA) and Taiwan formed a monophyletic clade. Moreover, the branch of Taiwanese aborigines appears to derive from the ISEA populations, suggesting that AN ancestors might be originated from ISEA, and then migrated to Taiwan. The result is inconsistent with the “Out of Taiwan” hypothesis.
